---
title: Monthly Report for 2026-03
---

In March TC 57 began regular meetings. The meetings aligned on committee process
and started getting the first bits of the specification infrastructure and text
in place.

## Normative Updates

- [Spec] Initial commit of the first clauses ([#4](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/4))

## Summary of the 2026-03-17 Meeting

### Meeting Logistics

The committee discussed the logistics of future meetings, including scheduling
and platform usage.

### Proposal Process

The committee established a two-pronged workflow for making changes to the
specification: a proposal flow for new content and a defect flow for edits and
corrections.

### Initial Commit

There was an open pull request for build tasks, folder structure, and
non-normative text such as intro and scope.

### Document Structure & Authoring

The committee discussed the document structure and authoring process, including
using LaTeX and integrating identifiers with Ecma house style.

### Current Proposals from Microsoft

There were approximately a dozen proposals in-flight for the two proposed
versions (202x and 202y) of HLSL, which the committee will review and transition
into the Ecma process.

## Summary of the 2026-03-31 Meeting

### Meeting Schedule

The committee decided to adhere to a schedule that aligns with Daylight Saving
Time (DST) in North America. Summer: 16:00 UTC (18:00 CEST, 12:00 EDT, 9:00
PDT), Winter: 15:00 UTC (18:00 CET, 12:00 EST, 9:00 PST).

### AI Use Policy

The committee aligned with ISO & IEC's AI use policies, prohibiting the use of
generative AI in specification text, technical reports, minutes, or any other
publication from the committee. Following this process keeps the door open to
submitting specifications from TC 57 to ISO.

### Information Organization

Minutes will be produced by the secretary and distributed to delegates as
Microsoft Word documents, and publicly in Markdown. A pull request will also be
opened on the GitHub repository for review and approval by the TC during the
next meeting.

### Open Pull Requests

Initial commit of the first clauses
([#4](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/4/)) was approved.

Proposal for HLSL 202x & 202y ([#5](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/5/))
was reviewed and discussed. The committee decided to start from 0 instead of
continuing numbering.

Terms and Definitions Clause ([#8](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/8/))
was introduced as an early work in progress.

Conformance clause ([#11](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/11/)) was
introduced as a draft.
